README.md, before:

# Kudos-o-Matic™

[![Rails test and deploy](https://github.com/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/workflows/Rails%20test%20and%20deploy/badge.svg)](https://github.com/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/actions)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/69d210539137c4dc5e06/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/maintainability)
[![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/69d210539137c4dc5e06/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/test_coverage)

## Bug reports and feature requests

GitHub issues is closed, the [PivotalTracker project](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/n/projects/1993685) is the place to create new feature requests or bug reports. Please open all new issues in the icebox and use one of the [templates](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/help/articles/story_templates/) when opening a new issue.

## What is the Kudos-o-Matic?

The Kudo project originated from the wish to create common goals for people and teams who work on different projects in order to _strengthen the team spirit_, _collectively celebrate successes_ and _ensure transparency_ within an organization.

The Kudos-o-Matic was created to keep track of these goals and the progress towards it.
Users can reward each other for good deeds by giving Kudos to each other and work together to achieve common goals in the form of Kudo-thresholds.

## Quick start guide

### Prerequisites

To start using the Kudos-o-Matic, you'll need:

- [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/) (consult [.ruby-version](.ruby-version) or [Gemfile](Gemfile) for the proper version)
- [Ruby on Rails](http://rubyonrails.org/) (consult [Gemfile](Gemfile) for the proper version)
- [Redis](https://redis.io)
- [Bundler](http://bundler.io/)
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
- [ImageMagick](https://www.imagemagick.org/)
- [Mailhog](https://github.com/mailhog/MailHog) (development only)

### Setup and Usage

#### Ruby and Ruby version managers

By using a Ruby version manager (such as [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/), you can easily switch between different Ruby versions and avoid conflicts that can occur when different versions use different versions of gems.

#### Docker for local development

```sh
docker compose up --build
```

When everything runs:

```sh
open http://localhost:3000/graphql/playground
```

#### Dependencies

First, make sure you install bundler:

```bash
gem install bundler
```

Then, install dependencies:

```bash
bundle install
```

#### Redis

- For Windows you can download it [here](https://github.com/rgl/redis/downloads)
- For MacOS you can use Homebrew: `brew install redis`

#### Environment variables

Copy environment variables. Following the dependency setup instructions below will help you set these variables.

```
cp env.example .env
```

#### Database configuration

Copy default database configuration (change if needed)

```bash
cp config/database.yml.example config/database.yml
```

#### Database

Create the databases and initialize it with the seed data.  
The [corresponding script](db/seeds.db) requires Redis to be up and running, so make sure you start this first.

```bash
redis-server
bin/rails db:setup
```

### Usage

```bash
redis-server
bin/sidekiq -q default -q mailers
bin/rails s
```

#### What's next?

- Your GraphQL endpoint will be listening on '<http://localhost:3000/graphql>'.
- You can view your Kudos-o-Matic playground at '<http://localhost:3000/graphql/playground>'.
- You can set up your Kudos-o-Matic front-end by following the instructions on '<https://github.com/kabisa/kudos-frontend>'

## Set up dependencies (optional)

Congratulations, you did just set up the Kudos-o-Matic!  
You can optionally set up the dependencies listed below to get the most out of your Kudos-o-Matic.

### Amazon AWS S3 setup

Follow these instructions to setup the Amazon AWS S3 cloud storage service for images attached to Kudo posts:

- [Create an AWS S3 account](https://aws.amazon.com/resources/create-account/).
- Setup a Amazon S3 Bucket.
- Set the `AWS_S3_HOST_NAME`, `AWS_S3_REGION`, `AWS_S3_BUCKET`, `AWS_S3_BUCKET` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` environment variables.
- Restart the server.

### Mail setup

The Kudos-o-Matic can automatically send mail notifications when the following events occur:

- When a user joins the Kudos-o-Matic platform.
- When a user receives Kudos (only this user will receive the notification).
- When a Kudo goal is reached.
- Weekly summary mail.
- User account related emails (confirmation, password reset, etc.)

To use Mailhog for local usage follow the instructions on [their GitHub repository](https://github.com/mailhog/MailHog)

You can also update the configuration (`development.rb`) if you don't want to use Mailhog. Set and use the `MAIL_USERNAME`, `MAIL_PASSWORD` and `MAIL_ADDRESS` environment variables for this.

### Slack

See [here](docs/SLACK_INTEGRATION.md).

### CI and deployment

The project is build using [GitHub actions](https://github.com/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/actions) and deployed to [Heroku](https://dashboard.heroku.com/teams/kabisa/apps).

Every commit to the develop branch is deployed to [staging](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/kudo-o-matic-staging)

Every commit to the master branch is deployed to [production](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/kudo-o-matic-production)

## Entities

A diagram of the models is available [here](docs/erd.svg).

### KudosMeter

A _KudosMeter_ is the base of the Kudos-o-Matic system. It groups _Goals_ together and connects them to _Posts_.

### Team

A _Team_ is the tenant where you and your colleagues give and collect Kudos

### Goal

A _Goal_ depends on a _KudosMeter_.
To set and see a _Goal_ on the Kudo Meter you need to associate the _Goal_ with the current _KudosMeter_.
A _Goal_ is a common reward for the organization (for example: paintball) that will be organized if the defined Kudo threshold is exceeded.

### Post

A _Post_ depends on a _KudosMeter_.
A _User_ can reward another _User_ for a good deed by creating a Kudo _Post_.

### Vote

A _Vote_ depends on a _Post_ (votable) and a _User_ (voter).
A _User_ can like and unlike _Posts_.

### User

A _User_ can create a Kudo _Post_ to reward another _User_ for a good deed.
_Users_ work together to achieve common Kudo _Goals_.

## How to contribute?

- [Fork the repository](https://github.com/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/fork).
- Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`).
- Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some new feature'`).
- Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`).
- [Create a new Pull Request](https://github.com/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/pulls).

## Did you find a bug?

- [Ensure the bug was not already reported](https://github.com/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/issues).
- If you are unable to find an open issue addressing the problem, [open a new one](https://github.com/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/issues/new).
- Be sure to include a title and a clear description, as much relevant information as possible,
  and a code example or an executable test case demonstration of the expected behavior that is not occurring.

## License

Copyright (c) 2016-2019 [Kabisa](https://www.kabisa.nl/). See [license](https://github.com/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/blob/develop/LICENSE.md) for details.

Commit message:

Setup redis for sidekiq and db:seed

README.md, after:

# Kudos-o-Matic™

[![Rails test and deploy](https://github.com/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/workflows/Rails%20test%20and%20deploy/badge.svg)](https://github.com/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/actions)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/69d210539137c4dc5e06/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/maintainability)
[![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/69d210539137c4dc5e06/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/test_coverage)

## Bug reports and feature requests

GitHub issues is closed, the [PivotalTracker project](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/n/projects/1993685) is the place to create new feature requests or bug reports. Please open all new issues in the icebox and use one of the [templates](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/help/articles/story_templates/) when opening a new issue.

## What is the Kudos-o-Matic?

The Kudo project originated from the wish to create common goals for people and teams who work on different projects in order to _strengthen the team spirit_, _collectively celebrate successes_ and _ensure transparency_ within an organization.

The Kudos-o-Matic was created to keep track of these goals and the progress towards it.
Users can reward each other for good deeds by giving Kudos to each other and work together to achieve common goals in the form of Kudo-thresholds.

## Quick start guide

### Prerequisites

To start using the Kudos-o-Matic, you'll need:

- [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/) (consult [.ruby-version](.ruby-version) or [Gemfile](Gemfile) for the proper version)
- [Ruby on Rails](http://rubyonrails.org/) (consult [Gemfile](Gemfile) for the proper version)
- [Redis](https://redis.io)
- [Bundler](http://bundler.io/)
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
- [ImageMagick](https://www.imagemagick.org/)
- [Mailhog](https://github.com/mailhog/MailHog) (development only)

### Setup and Usage

#### Ruby and Ruby version managers

By using a Ruby version manager (such as [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/), you can easily switch between different Ruby versions and avoid conflicts that can occur when different versions use different versions of gems.

#### Docker for local development

```sh
docker compose up --build
```

To seed the database:

```sh
docker exec -it kudo-o-matic_web sh
# in the shell of the docker container:
bundle exec rake db:seed
```

When everything runs:

```sh
open http://localhost:3000/graphql/playground
```

#### Dependencies

First, make sure you install bundler:

```bash
gem install bundler
```

Then, install dependencies:

```bash
bundle install
```

#### Redis

- For Windows you can download it [here](https://github.com/rgl/redis/downloads)
- For MacOS you can use Homebrew: `brew install redis`

#### Environment variables

Copy environment variables. Following the dependency setup instructions below will help you set these variables.

```
cp env.example .env
```

#### Database

Create the databases and initialize it with the seed data.  
The [corresponding script](db/seeds.db) requires Redis to be up and running, so make sure you start this first.

```bash
redis-server
bin/rails db:setup
```

### Usage

```bash
redis-server
bin/sidekiq -q default -q mailers
bin/rails s
```

#### What's next?

- Your GraphQL endpoint will be listening on '<http://localhost:3000/graphql>'.
- You can view your Kudos-o-Matic playground at '<http://localhost:3000/graphql/playground>'.
- You can set up your Kudos-o-Matic front-end by following the instructions on '<https://github.com/kabisa/kudos-frontend>'

## Set up dependencies (optional)

Congratulations, you did just set up the Kudos-o-Matic!  
You can optionally set up the dependencies listed below to get the most out of your Kudos-o-Matic.

### Amazon AWS S3 setup

Follow these instructions to setup the Amazon AWS S3 cloud storage service for images attached to Kudo posts:

- [Create an AWS S3 account](https://aws.amazon.com/resources/create-account/).
- Setup a Amazon S3 Bucket.
- Set the `AWS_S3_HOST_NAME`, `AWS_S3_REGION`, `AWS_S3_BUCKET`, `AWS_S3_BUCKET` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` environment variables.
- Restart the server.

### Mail setup

The Kudos-o-Matic can automatically send mail notifications when the following events occur:

- When a user joins the Kudos-o-Matic platform.
- When a user receives Kudos (only this user will receive the notification).
- When a Kudo goal is reached.
- Weekly summary mail.
- User account related emails (confirmation, password reset, etc.)

To use Mailhog for local usage follow the instructions on [their GitHub repository](https://github.com/mailhog/MailHog)

You can also update the configuration (`development.rb`) if you don't want to use Mailhog. Set and use the `MAIL_USERNAME`, `MAIL_PASSWORD` and `MAIL_ADDRESS` environment variables for this.

### Slack

See [here](docs/SLACK_INTEGRATION.md).

### CI and deployment

The project is build using [GitHub actions](https://github.com/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/actions) and deployed to [Heroku](https://dashboard.heroku.com/teams/kabisa/apps).

Every commit to the develop branch is deployed to [staging](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/kudo-o-matic-staging)

Every commit to the master branch is deployed to [production](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/kudo-o-matic-production)

## Entities

A diagram of the models is available [here](docs/erd.svg).

### KudosMeter

A _KudosMeter_ is the base of the Kudos-o-Matic system. It groups _Goals_ together and connects them to _Posts_.

### Team

A _Team_ is the tenant where you and your colleagues give and collect Kudos

### Goal

A _Goal_ depends on a _KudosMeter_.
To set and see a _Goal_ on the Kudo Meter you need to associate the _Goal_ with the current _KudosMeter_.
A _Goal_ is a common reward for the organization (for example: paintball) that will be organized if the defined Kudo threshold is exceeded.

### Post

A _Post_ depends on a _KudosMeter_.
A _User_ can reward another _User_ for a good deed by creating a Kudo _Post_.

### Vote

A _Vote_ depends on a _Post_ (votable) and a _User_ (voter).
A _User_ can like and unlike _Posts_.

### User

A _User_ can create a Kudo _Post_ to reward another _User_ for a good deed.
_Users_ work together to achieve common Kudo _Goals_.

## How to contribute?

- [Fork the repository](https://github.com/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/fork).
- Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`).
- Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some new feature'`).
- Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`).
- [Create a new Pull Request](https://github.com/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/pulls).

## Did you find a bug?

- [Ensure the bug was not already reported](https://github.com/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/issues).
- If you are unable to find an open issue addressing the problem, [open a new one](https://github.com/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/issues/new).
- Be sure to include a title and a clear description, as much relevant information as possible,
  and a code example or an executable test case demonstration of the expected behavior that is not occurring.

## License

Copyright (c) 2016-2019 [Kabisa](https://www.kabisa.nl/). See [license](https://github.com/kabisa/kudo-o-matic/blob/develop/LICENSE.md) for details.
